

Overview
This API is used for registering the invoice and getting the Invoice Registration Number (IRN).
The request payload has to be as per the schema specified below.The details of the requests
and responses are explained.
The format and details of Generate IRN API request is depicted in following table.
URL <URL>/api/Invoice
Content-Type application/json
Method POST
Request Header
Attributes Description
client_id client id to be provided by E-Invoice System
client_secret client secret to be provided by E-Invoice System
Gstin GSTIN of the authenticated user
user_name User name of the authenticated user
AuthToken Authentication token returned by the E-Invoice system
Request Payload
Attributes Description
Data Base 64 encoded string of encrypted invoice JSON using Sek.

 
Response Payload
Attributes Description
Status Status of the generate IRN request(values 1-Success and 0- Failure)
Data If Status is "1"
ErrorDetails If Status is "0"
InfoDtls Any additional message to be conveyed would be passed.
If Status is "1"
Data Base 64 encoded string of decrypted invoice JSON using Sek.
After decrypting Data the following attributes are obtained as below.
Attributes Description
AckNo Transaction number
AckDt Date and time on which invoice is registered(Date format is "yyyy-MM-dd
HH:mm:ss ").
Irn SHA256 hash of Gstin, DocDtls.No, DocDtls.Typ, financial year of
DoctDtls.Dt
SignedInvoice Complete e-Invoice data digitally signed using JSON Web Token(JWT) and
JSON Web Signature (JWS) with "SHA256RSA" algorithm
SignedQRCode Complete QR- Code data digitally signed using JSON Web Token(JWT) and
JSON Web Signature (JWS) with "SHA256RSA" algorithm
Status "ACT" for Active and "CNL" for Cancelled
EwbNo E Way Bill No. , if E Way Bill is generated
EwbDt E Way Bill Date. , if E Way Bill is generated
EwbValidTill E Way Bill validity date, if Part B details are provided in the payload
If Status is "0"
ErrorDetails Base 64 encoded string.
On decoding ErrorDetails the following attributes from JSON array are obtained as follows.
ErrorCode Unique error code
ErrorMessage Error Description

Sample JSON (Request)
JSON corresponds to the "Data" element of Generate E-Invoice Request above
Sample JSON (Response)
 


{
"Data":
"cwMtQmlx/upJuEqKfTMTQ6RH1s6SOQwm9SknTMBvHm9CFeJCCs4otZZbdf76sP/xpR4K3H5qv
4BScdA75FgIolVbvDnDgvzJyg9mDWxMIM3Mkbtt7by5XC9CqVqqhnPSri9R5UE3PJgVKcMsM3aB
frJfUJZF+VW0LDdaHRYZI06mE3oBELTKgLh6QCLyaa1F+UtwjVCWNcilnIl0Lcr8fYzg0b8hqe4BoV
T7tOT+8us/LvTSEFdDS0IjFD8PcBQuqHPeeHRNyYCln9M0yEeWwWue+JoXHPlWT4RVQsJdcaEVC
SdvpbA4MgYu4OVmYoPYIqlXJBP39/P0CiQR6IA1S/YY76n2FB+QqJI1n3ayvvu/WD4k6lY98L96TO
RxRxD6sy01mLsVthW6ua+kRRY4IwGP9dJGmE/Tbnf3FTa413oFyG/At5oR5LFh2ckNDzZ2Jbriv4
Qj9WAMeL7qhWFSRVYlK1Be3/fP+qG0HFEtAF/z5Od4aqztp8NH7jE5jQqFyyRvN0iSv9ZFatJErQT
VZONvSVjObt1eHexIPibMYNeuIFevULQBchd10xwqrZiZyyi+5224N53EVjys8nPiW2ZFBVcEviNsO
1D+RUgS0xgdghwhhFliP68XhphWL0jI/74Nmf8VnUIAWvJNzGBlcMOgW9oHiNNszuhHe/DydLg1
60K+terW/Y22k7FWFrwpZpdeUdOQj9WAMeL7qhWFSRVYlK1Be3/fP+qG0HFEvfZY1k8+sXFpIs
cgL7Zc8xUSGJj1XZQQcSReiKaNiG2wbmrGnljDJgh0GUjMRbI7p+ABlcsJc77BuXC8yYLKxuuGJt2Q
6RRAonFeD13lBO9ajZt8LJ7DFc8xn+Ty13IxAGEOv2QqxaaII24dxdzhqSLwAtpcED46mWW8og
 


{
  "Version": "1.1",
  "TranDtls": {
    "TaxSch": "GST",
    "SupTyp": "B2B",
    "RegRev": "Y",
    "EcmGstin": null,
    "IgstOnIntra": "N"
  },
  "DocDtls": {
    "Typ": "INV",
    "No": "DOC/001",
 "Dt" "18/08/2020"



JSON corresponds to the data element of Generate IRN Response(Success) above
JSON(in case of error)
JSON Schema
 


 


 
        "AckDt":"2020-08-05 15:18:00",
        "Irn":"11f8ef701fe294d4a14aad0b12457e62775d0fdc41a0acf05b74fbb2ddc47a
        "SignedInvoice":"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjExNUY0NDI2NjE3QTc5MzhC
        "SignedQRCode":"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjExNUY0NDI2NjE3QTc5MzhCR
        "Status":"ACT",
        "EwbNo":191008688443,
        "EwbDt":"2020-08-05 15:18:00",
        "EwbValidTill":"2020-08-06 23:59:00",
        "Remarks":null
    }
              
 


{
"status": "0",
"Data": null,
"ErrorDetails":"<Errors JSON >",
"InfoDtls": "<alert message >"
}
 


  {
"$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
"Title": "GST-India Invoice Document ",
"Description": "GST Invoice format for IRN Generation in INDIA",
"Version": {
"type": "string",
"minLength": 1,
"maxLength": 6,
"description": "Version of the schema"
},
"Irn": {
"type": "string",
" i L th" 64

Validations
Validations in e-Invoicing System
1. E-Invoice request JSON data has to be validated as per the e-Invoice JSON Schema given
in the notification.
2. ‘Version’ attribute in the Schema is mandatory and should be latest as per the latest
notification. Presently it should be passed as ‘1.1’.
3. IRN should not be passed as part of the request; it is generated by the e-Invoice system
and sent as response.
4. The attributes in the JSON schema have been defined with column length, format and data
types. Where-ever the data format is not defined for the attribute having data type as
string, then for these attributes, the alphanumeric and special characters are allowed
except the special characters “ (double quote) and \ (back slash).
5. IRN generation is allowed only for the active Supplier. If he is cancelled or suspended, he
cannot generate IRN.
6. The following fields should have one of the values given in the master codes.
1. Supply Type of Transaction
2. Document Type
7. The category of transaction of "Business to Consumer (B2C)" invoices will not be
considered and hence the API interface should not request for IRN for these transactions.
8. Document number should not be starting with 0, / and -. If so, then request is rejected.
9. IRN requests with Document Date from 01/04/2025 only will be accepted and processed
for IRN generation. IRN requests belonging to previous dates will be rejected.
10. Supplier should ensure that the unique invoice number is being generated for the financial
year for each invoice, in his ERP/manual system. The financial year is derived from the date
of invoice. The financial year starts from 1st April and ends on 31st March.
11. Duplicate IRN requests are not considered. That is, if the IRN is already generated on
particular type of document and document number of the supplier for the financial year,
then one more IRN cannot be generated on the same combination.
12. e-invoice(IRN) cannot be re-generated for the cancelled e-invoice(IRN) also.
13. Request for the IRN/e-Invoice can be made only by the supplier of the goods or services.
14. In case of e-commerce transactions, the e-Commerce Operator can request for the IRN/e-
invoice on behalf of the supplier. In this case, the e-Commerce Operator should have been
registered on the GST portal as e-Commerce Operator and pass eCom_GSTIN accordingly.
15. In case the supplier is SEZ unit, then he cannot generate e-Invoice.
16. "Reverse Charges" can be set as "Y" in case of B2B and SEZ invoices only and tax is being
paid in reverse manner as per rule. Even in case of Reverse Charged invoices, the Supplier
has to generate the IRN.

17. SEZWP and SEZWOP supply type is allowed only if the taxpayer type of recipient GSTIN is
‘SEZ Unit’ or ‘SEZ Developer’.
18. Recipient GSTIN should be registered and active or suspended, on the date of preparation
of the document by the supplier.
19. In case Recipient GSTIN is cancelled, then the document date should be between the date
of registration and date of de-registration of the Recipient GSTIN.
20. In case SEZ Developer is Supplier, then only IGST tax rates are applicable irrespective of
Supplier state code and POS code.
21. In case of transaction of direct export, recipient GSTIN has to be URP and state code has
to be 96, PIN code should be 999999, POS should be 96.
22. In case of GSTIN of supplier or recipient belonging to state of ‘OTHER TERRITORY’ (with
state code as 97), then PIN code can be 999999.
23. First two digits of the Supplier / Recipient GSTIN should match with the state code passed
in the Supplier / Recipient details accordingly except if supply type is exports wherein
Recipient state code will be 96.
24. PIN Codes are validated against the States, they belong by matching the complete pincode
against state master. If the PIN Code does not exist in the master database of the e-
invoicing system, and the first 3 digits of the PIN code is matched with the State as per
the pattern of PIN code-to-State mapping defined by postal department, then IRN gets
generated.
25. If "Shipping party" is provided, then the transaction is considered as "Bill To-Ship To".
26. If "Dispatching party" is provided, then the transaction is considered as "Bill From "
Dispatch From".
27. If both Shipping and Dispatching parties are provided, then the transaction is considered
as "Combination of Both" (Bill From - Dispatch From and Bill To- Ship To).
28. In case of export transactions for goods, if e-way bill is required along with IRN, then the
'Ship-To' address should be of the place/port in India from where the goods are being
exported. Otherwise E-way bill can be generated later based on IRN, by passing the 'Ship-
To' address as the place/port address of India from where the goods are being exported .
29. In case IGST on intrastate supply, tax rates and tax values related to IGST should be
passed, and Supplier state code and POS state code should be same.
30. In case IGST on intrastate supply, then Reverse charge is mandatory.
31. The state code of the Supplier GSTIN and POS will decide whether the supply type is
Interstate or Intrastate. That is, if the State code of Supplier and POS is same, then it is
intra-state, otherwise it is inter-state. However, IGST on intrastate supply attribute will
overrule this condition.
32. In case of Exports and SEZ, the supply is always Interstate
33. JSON payload size cannot exceed 2MB.
34. Reverse charge is not applicable for transactions if recipient taxpayer type is ISD.

35. Deemed exports is allowed for recipient taxpayers with taxpayer type as Regular or
Casual.
36. Tax rate 0.5% is withdrawn.
37. The maximum date value for RefDtls.DocPerdDtls.InvEndDt is 31/12/2059.
38. The Supplier GSTIN can be of taxpayer type REG or SED.
39. The State code 25 of Daman and Diu is withdrawn under POS.
Validations for e-Invoices by e-Commerce operators:
1. The e-Invoices may be generated by the e-Commerce operator (having tax payer type as
‘TCS’ ) on behalf of the Suppliers.
2. The e-Commerce operator need not be enabled for e-Invoicing.
3. The e-Invoices generated by e-Commerce operators should include “EcmGstin” attribute
and should be the same as their GSTIN.
4. For e-Invoices generated by Suppliers, the “EcmGstin” attribute should be blank.
5. The e-Invoices generated by e-Commerce operators are also accessible to the Suppliers
for all the operations such as Viewing of IRN, Cancellation of IRN and Generation of E-
Waybill.
6. E-Waybills generated by e-Commerce operators can be cancelled by Suppliers also.
7. Only e-Commerce operators can generate e-Invoices pertaining to e-Commerce
transactions.
Validations on Items:
1. Serial number of the item can be only numeric & is verified for duplicate values.
2. Each item needs to have valid HSN code with at least 4 digits. HSN Code should be valid as
per the GST master.
3. If Is Service is selected, then the HSN codes must belong to services.
4. Each item should have valid Unit Quantity Code (UQC) as per the master codes, in case of
goods.
5. Quantity and Unit Quantity Code are mandatory for Goods and optional for Services.
6. Tax rates are being validated. Only the allowed tax rates will be accepted for all types of
document including Credit Note and Debit Note. In case of intra-state transaction, the sum
of SGST and CGST tax rates should be entered as GST Rate.
7. In case of inter-state transaction, the IGST tax rate and value has to be passed.
8. In case of export transaction, IGST tax rate and value has to be passed.
9. In case the Recipient is SEZ unit or SEZ Developer, then IGST tax rate and value has to be
passed irrespective of state of the Recipient.
10. Maximum number of items in each invoice should not exceed more than 1000 items and a
minimum of 1 item should be available.
Calculation of Values:
1. The following summation validations are to be done for items
Taxable Value of Item = Gross Amount of Item - Discount

SGST Value of Item = Taxable Value of Item X GST Rate / 2, if intra-state CGST
Value of Item = Taxable Value of Item X GST Rate / 2, if intra-state
IGST Value of Item = Taxable Value of Item X GST Rate, if inter-state
Cess Value of Item = Taxable Value of Item X Cess Rate
State Cess Value of Item = Taxable Value of Item X State Cess Rate
Total Value of Item = Taxable Value of Item + SGST Value of Item + CGST Value of
Item + IGST Value of Item + Cess Value of Item + State Cess Value of Item + Non-
Advol Cess Value of Item + State Cess Non-advol value of Item + Other charges.
However, in case of Reverse charge and Export transactions (EXPWP), Total value of
Item can match with either with tax values or without tax values. That is, the total
value of item can include or exclude the tax values as per the business requirements.
(Note: Temporarily, the validation of 'Gross Amount of Item with Quantity and Selling
Unit Price' has been withdrawn.
In case of EXPWOP and SEZWOP, Passed IGST Value of Item will not be validated
even if actual tax rate is passed, if the passed value of IGST for that is ZERO.)
In case of Reverse Charge, the tax (SGST+CGST or IGST) may be included or
excluded in the Total value of Item.
2. The following summation validations are to be done on Invoice total
Total Taxable Value = Taxable Value of all Items
Total SGST Value = SGST Value of all Items
Total CGST Value = CGST Value of all Items
Total IGST Value = IGST Value of all Items
Total Cess Value = Cess Value of all Items + Non-Advol Cess Value of all Items
Total State Cess Value = State Cess Value of all Items + State Cess Non-advol Value
of all Items
In case of CREDIT NOTE AND DEBIT NOTE, the ‘IGST/CGST/SGST/CESS value of
item’ is not validated with corresponding tax rates and taxable values.
3. Tolerance limit for points 1 and 2 above: The passed value should be between minimum
and maximum values as explained here. Minimum value is considered as the rupee part of
the calculated value minus one rupee and maximum value is taken as the rounded up to
next rupee value of the calculated value plus one rupee.
Example 1: In Point 1 and 2, if calculated value for IGST of item A is 2345.04 then
tolerance limit for passed value of that item is between 2344.00 and 2347.00.
Example 2: In Point 1 and 2, if calculated value of IGST of all items is 10241.00 then
tolerance limit for passed value of IGST of all items is between 10240.00and
10242.00
4. The round-off value for 'Round_off_amount' attribute is to adjust final
'Total_Invoice_Value_INR' attribute and can be between -99.99 and +99.99
5. The following summation validation is to be done on Invoice total

Total Invoice Value = Sum of All Total Value of Items - Invoice Discount + Invoice
Other charges + Round-off amount
6. Tolerance limit for point 5 above: The passed value should be between minimum and
maximum values as explained here. Minimum value is considered as the rupee part of the
calculated value minus one rupee and maximum value is taken as the rounded up to next
rupee value of the calculated value plus one rupee.
Example : If ‘calculated total invoice value’ is 10241.61 then tolerance limit for
‘passed total invoice value’ is between 10240.00 and 10243.00
Validations on e-waybill:
1. E-waybill can be generated only if E-way Bill related details are passed where distance is
mandatory.
2. E-way Bill is not generated for document types of Debit Note and Credit Note and
Services.
3. E Way Bill can be generated provided at least HSN of one item belongs to goods.
4. If only Transporter Id is provided, then only Part-A is generated. Transport Mode, Vehicle
Type, Vehicle No, Transportation document number and date should be null or attributes
should not have been passed.
5. If mode of transportation is "Road", then the Vehicle number and vehicle type should be
passed. If mode of transportation is Air, Rail, then the transport document number and
date should be passed. Vehicle type and vehicle number should be null or attributes should
not have been passed.
6. If mode of transportation is “Ship/ Road cum Ship”, then either Vehicle number or
transport document number and date or both can be passed. Vehicle type should be ODC.
7. The Vehicle no. should match with specified format and exist in Vahan database.
8. E-Waybill will not be generated if the Supplier or Recipient GSTIN is blocked due to non-
filing of Returns.
9. Pincode of Recipient GSTIN is mandatory if Ship-To details are not entered.
10. The distance of transportation is validated against the auto-calculated PIN-PIN distance
stored in the system. The allowed distance for transportation should be between +/- 10
% of auto-calculated PIN-PIN distance. If the auto-calculated distance is less than 100
KMs, then The allowed distance for transportation should be between 1 and +10 % of
auto-calculated PIN-PIN distance.
11. If the distance of transportation is passed as 0 (zero), then the system will consider it as
request made by the tax payer, to consider the auto-calculated PIN-PIN distance for the
generation of e-way bill and generate the e-way bill along with IRN. The actual distance is
passed in “Info. Message” column for reference.
12. If the PIN-PIN distance is not available in the system, the passed value of distance will be
taken for generation of e-way bill and distance value can not be more than 4000.

13. The actual distance has to be passed in case the source and destination PIN codes are
same and the allowed range of value is from 1 to 100.
14. In case of export of goods, if e-way bill has to be generated, then the address of port
should have been passed as shipping address during generation of IRN.
15. In case incomplete information has been passed for generation of E Way Bill, then IRN will
be generated and returned but not E Way Bill number. However subsequently, based on
IRN, E Way Bill can be generated.
Frequently Asked Questions
Content will be updated shortly.
